---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter 1 - The Spy's Trade"
date:   2022-07-06 13:13
categories:
---
## Chapter 1 – The Spy’s trade
With the letter signed and seal, I got up from my desk envelope in hand and headed towards the dungeon's interrogation chamber. The trip to the lower levels of the castle was always a somber one, and with the humid winter cold that the sea provided in the region, more so. That regal palace had been his home for the last fifteen years, after his promotion to spymaster. Fifteen years within those sturdy walls, made from solid rock, and polished and embellished to be fitting of the Wolf Empress, Vigdis II. Those years were full of sleepless nights, duels in the shadows and close calls, all things that those marvelous stone walls were unable to stop. But that was where me and my men came in. We were the invisible wall that stood between our lady and a sea of daggers and poison. Of course, sometimes we had to be at the other side of the wall regarding neighboring kingdoms, but it was all part of the great game. That night was one of those sleepless nights. 

I left behind my chamber within the keep while two of my men approached me, saluting properly before joining me on my way to the dungeons. “It will be a long night for them too” I thought, as they began to lay on me their discoveries: 

"Lord Swiftbane, sir, we are done with the nobles' questionings". – said the older one of the pair, Otto – "They were eager to talk, but each of them gave a different answer regarding the masquerade. The only thing in common was that they were watching Cladius Snakehand, the court magician, do some spell casting spectacle before the guests of honor stormed the room".

"Other than that, they didn't divulge the nature of the masquerade or the trials that those adventurers were involved in''. – Intervened the young one, Telka. She earned a sneer of disapproval from Otto, he wasn't finished with his explanation, and the old spy had always hated being interrupted. Telka smiled for herself and kept talking to me – "Should we use a circle of truth or a charm to get their answers?"

As she pronounced those words we had reached the keep's ground floor. Charming spells are a way to brute force an interrogation. They get results, but using them without restraint can cause problems. Of course, in the moment, we would obtain the answers we seek, but it would hurt us in the long run. Enchanting a noble is a very easy way to earn enemies, and more so for Vigdis. She was already gaining the hate of those lords only by having them caught in a compromising position, if we were to use magic to get our answers, we would hurt their pride, and with enough embarrassed lords we would have a regicide plot in our hands. It was good that Telka was eager to do her work, but that kind of enthusiasm could be our end. She would learn this in due time, but back then it was better to stick to a safer approach.

"None of that Telka, we don't want to make things worse for us". – I said, dismissing the risqué proposition – "For now, give this letter to lady Vigdis and check tonight's dinner, see there is no poison in her highness food. Now, continue”. - I said to Otto as Telka went back upstairs.

"As I was saying, the nobles are now a dead end without resorting to more extreme methods of interrogation, so the remaining suspects are costume wearing adventurers, there are seven in total. One of them died because of some grievous injuries inflicted by magic. I took the liberty to interrogate some of them in advance, to further the investigation". – Informed Otto in a diligent tone. The man was pleased, I felt, with me sending the young spy away from his task.

"And what did you find out?" - I inquired.

"That three of these folks found themselves caged in the dungeon after the banquet. They were expecting to participate in some kind of trial". - Explained Otto – "This would coincide with the findings of the royal guard. After an hour or so, one of them, the Ungolothian woman, managed to break free from the cell by picking the lock and came back with the other four adventurers that hadn't been captured. They were all bathed in blood and battle-worn. These four told them that the manor was a death trap, and so they joined them in their escape. Later on, after being surprised by the group, Count Píctor and Cladius Snakehand tried to end their lives. One of them died by the wizard's magic, but they ended up defeating their captors". - Concluded the old spy, proud of his work.

"I see, that would explain the hostility towards their host". - I concluded, the scene was getting clearer. The next step then was to interrogate the three surviving guests. Back then I thought that the answer would be within those three testimonies. I started by asking for names.

"The guests I interrogated were Kheb Meryamon, a graverobber from Neferu, Umzel Mordra, the Ungolian woman, and Finrod Elaria, the traveling half-elf bard. The woman that died because of the court wizard’s spells was Silona Yarin, a powerful druid”. - Listed Otto, with slight disappointment. - “A shame she is dead, we could have gotten good information out of her, the other three I mentioned said that she was with the four guests that were put through those trails“.

“Aren’t there any of those dead-whisperers from the church available for the corp’s interrogation?” - Those kinds of tricks had saved me uncountable headaches, it’s difficult to interrogate dead assassins that targeted the Empress without them. 

“Unfortunately, they consider this situation unfavorable, my lord. Maybe they are trying to cover for Count Píctor”. - spoke the old spy with regret. I believe he knew that I would ask for them.

“No matter.” - I said dismissing the thought of something going smoothly for once - “And who are the remaining adventurers?”

The true investigation was about to start.